README.md, before:

# AverageAngle
Arduino library to calculate correctly the average of multiple angles

## Description

AverageAngle is an class to calculate the average of angles.

This is especially useful when angles are around 0 degrees, 
e.g. from a compass sensor or the resultant of a track.
Example, the average angle of 359 and 1 is 0, not 179 (most of the time)

Furthermore the AverageAngle can also include the **length (weight)** of the angle
as if it is a vector. Default this length is set to 1 so all angles are by default of
equal weight.

Example: The average angle of 359 (len=2) and 1(len=1) is 359.something not zero.


## Operation

If you want to average 5 compass readings you can just add the angles and 
do not use the length parameter.
```
  AA.reset();
  for (int i = 0; i < 5; i++)
  {
    AA.add(compass.readHeading());
    delay(100); // e.g. compass needs some time
  }
  Serial.println(AA.getAverage());
```


If you want to average a track, e.g. 5 steps North, 3 steps west etc, you 
need to include the length of each step.
```
  AA.reset();
  AA.add(90, 5); 	// 5 steps north
  AA.add(180, 3);	// 3 steps west
  Serial.println(AA.getAverage());
  Serial.println(AA.getTotalLength());
```

Commit message:

Arduino ci (#3)
* initial arduino-ci
* add unit test
* **add()** now returns the count = number of elements added.

README.md, after:


[![Arduino CI](https://github.com/RobTillaart/AverageAngle/workflows/Arduino%20CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/arduino_ci)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-green.svg)](https://github.com/RobTillaart/AverageAngle/blob/master/LICENSE)
[![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/RobTillaart/AverageAngle.svg?maxAge=3600)](https://github.com/RobTillaart/AverageAngle/releases)

# AverageAngle

Arduino library to calculate correctly the average of multiple angles

## Description

AverageAngle is an class to calculate the average of angles.

This is especially useful when angles are around 0 degrees, 
e.g. from a compass sensor or the resultant of a track.
Example, the average angle of 359 and 1 is 0, not 179 (most of the time)

Furthermore the AverageAngle can also include the **length (weight)** of the angle
as if it is a vector. Default this length is set to 1 so all angles are by default of
equal weight.

Example: The average angle of 359 (len=2) and 1(len=1) is 359.something not zero.

**See also runningAngle class**.

## Interface

- **enum AngleType { DEGREES, RADIANS } ** idem.
- **AverageAngle(AngleType type = DEGREES)** constructor defaults to degrees.
- **add(float alpha, float length = 1.0)** add a new angle, optional with length. **add()** returns the number of elements (count).
- **reset()** clears internal buffers.
- **count()** the amount of angles added.
- **getAverage() ** returns the average.
- **getTotalLength() ** the length of the resulting 'angle' when we see them as vectors.
- **getAverageLength()** returns the average length of the angles added.
- **AngleType type()** returns DEGREES or RADIANS.


## Operation

If you want to average 5 compass readings you can just add the angles and 
do not use the length parameter.
```
  AA.reset();
  for (int i = 0; i < 5; i++)
  {
    AA.add(compass.readHeading());
    delay(100); // e.g. compass needs some time
  }
  Serial.println(AA.getAverage());
```


If you want to average a track, e.g. 5 steps North, 3 steps west etc, you 
need to include the length of each step.
```
  AA.reset();
  AA.add(90, 5); 	// 5 steps north
  AA.add(180, 3);	// 3 steps west
  Serial.println(AA.getAverage());
  Serial.println(AA.getTotalLength());
```
